docs: Merge manuals (#8087)
dagger/dagger: docs/current_docs/features/visualization.mdx

![Dagger TUI](/img/current_docs/features/tui.gif)

The TUI is driven by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) and is essentially a live-streaming OpenTelemetry trace visualizer. It represents Dagger API calls as OpenTelemetry spans with special metadata. If user code integrates with OpenTelemetry, related spans will appear in the TUI as first-class citizens.

The TUI renders a tree of Dagger API calls, represented as GraphQL queries. A parent-child relationship means that the child call is being made by the parent call.
- A red X or green check indicates whether the call succeeded or failed.
- A call's duration is rendered after its name.

The CLI has tiered verbosity: `-v`, `-vv`, `-vvv` (just like `curl`):
- `-v` keeps spans visible after they complete, rather than disappearing after a brief pause;
- `-vv` reveals internal and encapsulated spans;
- `-vvv` reveals sub-100ms spans.

For additional debugging information, add the `--debug` flag to the `dagger call` command.

> ## Traces

Author: @crjm please review this section

> Dagger Cloud provides Traces, a browser-based interface focused on tracing and debugging Dagger pipeline runs. A Trace represents one invocation of a Dagger Function, run locally or in CI. It contains detailed information about the operations performed by the Dagger Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagger Cloud provides Traces, a browser-based interface focused on tracing and debugging Dagger functions. A Trace represents one invocation of a Dagger Function, run locally or in CI. It contains detailed information about the operations performed by the Dagger Function.
```

Author: Do Traces not work with `dagger run`?

> Traces provides a UI to debug what went wrong when something fails, focusing on tracing what happened and when it happened. Traces also helps you optimize your Dagger Functions as you author them, by giving you the detailed step-by-step execution of your pipeline and the associated telemetry. This is equally useful for debugging pipelines running on a developer's local environment and for pipelines in CI environments.

Reviewer: nit (only opinion): Wonder if this could be a bullet point with two items instead of a paragraph.

Author: Done

Here's an example of it in action:

![Dagger Trace](/img/current_docs/quickstart/trace.gif)

Dagger is aware of the context it runs on. The Dagger Cloud dashboard classifies Traces depending on whether you triggered a run from your local development host or from your CI environment. You can select the appropriate view from the dashboard sidebar. Here's an example showing Traces generated in a CI environment:

![Traces list](/img/current_docs/features/trace-list.png)

This initial view displays groups of Traces that belong to the same point in Git history. The grouping is determined by the branch/reference combination where Dagger was triggered. This is useful when you need to inspect all the Traces emitted at a specific, pinned point in the repository's version history

Here's a quick summary of what you'll see for each Trace group:

- Repository name
- Commit metadata, including comment and commit author
- Indication of the run status: in progress, succeeded, or failed
- The command used
- The run start time
- The run duration

:::important

> All of the information listed above may not be available for a specific group; it differs depending on whether the Trace is generated by a local run or a CI run. When Dagger runs in a CI context like GitHub, GitLab, CircleCI, or Jenkins, additional Trace metadata is displayed based on the Git repository information available.

Reviewer: I wonder if here we want to add a warning admonition as well about orphaned traces.
For groups to be properly set, the branch and commit SHA have to be available to the engine. If the repository is not correctly provisioned to the engine, it's likely that wrong or partial Git metadata will be displayed. When this happens (traces ran in a CI context, but with incomplete Git metadata), they'll be marked as orphaned, and **will not be part of a group**.

Author: Added

:::

You can drill down into the details of a specific group by clicking it. This directs you to a list of Traces, together with detailed status and duration metadata for each. Each Dagger Function call is represented as a separate Trace, as shown below:

![Trace details](/img/current_docs/features/trace-details.png)

You can click any of the Traces in the list to see detailed logs for each Trace. The flame graph at the top of the Trace shows the operations performed by the Dagger Function, with a visual cue of how much time each operation represents of the total duration, as shown below:

![Trace log](/img/current_docs/features/trace-log.png)

> :::info

Reviewer: IMHO this could be sent to the top of the Traces section, as it gives a bit of context of why we call them Traces. OTEL is a kinda well- know protocol, so it will likely resonate among DevOps oriented users.

Author: Done

Dagger uses [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) as its telemetry protocol. Each Dagger Function call is represented as an [OpenTelemetry trace](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/). The operations performed by the Dagger Function are represented as [OpenTelemetry spans](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans). A span can emit several effects, which are the operations generated in the span. For example, the `withDirectory()` span generates all the necessary operations to provide a directory with excluded and included elements. For this, it first loads a directory, and then creates a new one from scratch inside the container, generating two distinct steps (effects).
:::

> If there are any errors, Dagger Cloud automatically brings you to the first error in the list.

Reviewer: It doesn't really "take you" there, but it surfaces what we think is the main error of the trace, and the main error message.

Author: Modified
